# WordPress Core Version Enumeration
An essential part of the enumeration phase is uncovering the software version number.

The first and easiest step is reviewing the page source code. We can do this by right-clicking anywhere on the current page and selecting "View page source" from the menu or using the keyboard shortcut `[CTRL + U]`.

We can search for the `meta generator` tag using the shortcut `[CTRL + F]` in the browser or use `cURL` along with `grep` from the command line to filter for this information.

Aside from version information, the source code may also contain comments that may be useful. Links to CSS (style sheets) and JS (JavaScript) can also provide hints about the version number.
### Scanning with wpscan
We can either manually enumerate for directories whose contents can be listed or, run `WPScan`:
```shell
wpscan --url http://IP:PORT -e
```

We can be more aggressive with
```shell
wpscan --url http://blog.inlanefreight.local -e ap --no-banner --plugins-detection aggressive --plugins-version-detection aggressive --max-threads 60
```
- Enumerates all plugins and set the `--plugins-detectoion` and `--plugins-version-detection` options to be `aggressive`
# Plugins and Themes Enumeration
We can also find information about the installed plugins by reviewing the source code manually by inspecting the page source or filtering for the information using `cURL` and other command-line utilities.
```bash
curl -s -X GET http://blog.inlanefreight.com | sed 's/href=/\n/g' | sed 's/src=/\n/g' | grep 'wp-content/plugins/*' | cut -d"'" -f2
```
```bash
curl -s -X GET http://blog.inlanefreight.com | sed 's/href=/\n/g' | sed 's/src=/\n/g' | grep 'themes' | cut -d"'" -f2
```
- However, not all installed plugins and themes can be discovered passively. In this case, we have to send requests to the server actively to enumerate them. We can do this by sending a GET request that points to a directory or file that may exist on the server. If the directory or file does exist, we will either gain access to the directory or file or will receive a redirect response from the webserver, indicating that the content does exist. However, we do not have direct access to it.
### Plugins Active Enumeration
```bash
curl -I -X GET http://blog.inlanefreight.com/wp-content/plugins/mail-masta
```
- If the content does not exist, we will receive a `404 Not Found error`.

The same applies to installed themes.

To speed up enumeration, we could also write a simple bash script or use a tool such as `wfuzz` or `WPScan`, which automate the process.