# Obtaining Session Identifiers without User Interaction
There are multiple attacking techniques through which a penetration tester can obtain session identifiers. 
1. Session ID-obtaining attacks without user interaction
2. Session ID-obtaining attacks requiring user interaction
## Obtaining Session Identifiers via Traffic Sniffing
You will usually see them plugging their laptops or Raspberry Pis into available ethernet sockets. Doing so allows them to monitor the traffic and gives them an idea of the traffic going through the network (segment) and the services they may attack. 

Traffic sniffing requires the attacker and the victim to be on the same local network. Then and only then can HTTP traffic be inspected by the attacker. It is impossible for an attacker to perform traffic sniffing remotely.

This is because HTTP is a protocol that transfers data unencrypted. Thus if an attacker is monitoring the network, they can catch all kinds of information such as usernames, passwords, and even session identifiers. This type of information will be more challenging and, most of the time, impossible to obtain if HTTP traffic is encrypted through SSL or IPsec.

To sum up, obtaining session identifiers through traffic sniffing requires:
- The attacker must be positioned on the same local network as the victim
- Unencrypted HTTP traffic

Wireshark has an inbuilt filter function that allows users to filter traffic for a specific protocol such as HTTP, SSH, FTP, and even for a particular source IP address.

We can fire up Wireshark with:
```bash
sudo -E wireshark
```

You can then right-click on a network and select `start capture`
- We can apply the filter to see only HTTP traffic by typing `http` in the `display a filter` bar

We can search for any cookies (`uid`, `auth-session`, `SESSION`, etc.) as follows:
1. Navigate to `Edit` -> `Find Packet`
2. Left-click on `Packet list` and then click `Packet bytes`
3. Select `String` on the third drop-down menu and specify the cookie name on the field next to it. (e.g. `auth-cookie`)
4. Click `Find`. Wireshark will present you with the packets that include an `auth-session` string.

> The cookie can be copied by right-clicking on a row that contains it, then clicking on `Copy` and finally clicking `Value`.
## Obtaining Session Identifiers Post-Exploitation (Web Server Access)
During the post-exploitation phase, session identifiers and session data can be retrieved from either a web server's disk or memory. Of course, an attacker who has compromised a web server can do more than obtain session data and session identifiers.
### PHP
Let us look at where PHP session identifiers are usually stored.

The entry `session.save_path` in `PHP.ini` specifies where session data will be stored.
```bash
locate php.ini
Kcat /etc/php/7.4/cli/php.ini | grep 'session.save_path'
cat /etc/php/7.4/apache2/php.ini | grep 'session.save_path'
```
> **Note**: a victim has to be authenticated for us to view their session identifier. The files an attacker will search for use the name convention `sess_<sessionID>`.
### Java
Let us look at where Java session identifiers are stored.

According to the Apache Software Foundation:
>"The `Manager` element represents the _session manager_ that is used to create and maintain HTTP sessions of a web application.

Tomcat provides two standard implementations of `Manager`. The default implementation stores active sessions, while the optional one stores active sessions that have been swapped out (in addition to saving sessions across a server restart) in a storage location that is selected via the use of an appropriate `Store` nested element. The filename of the default session data file is `SESSIONS.ser`."
### .NET
Let us look at where .NET session identifiers are stored.

Session data can be found in:
- The application worker process (aspnet_wp.exe) - This is the case in the _InProc Session mode_
- StateServer (A Windows Service residing on IIS or a separate server) - This is the case in the _OutProc Session mode_
- An SQL Server
## Obtaining Session Identifiers Post-Exploitation (Database Access)
In cases where you have direct access to a database via, for example, SQL injection or identified credentials, you should always check for any stored user sessions. See an example below.
```sql
show databases;
use project;
show tables;
select * from users;
```

We may find more tables such as an `all_sessions` table that we can extract data from as well:
```sql
select * from all_sessions;
select * from all_sessions where id=3;
```
# NOTES!
An attacker would be able to capture cookies via sniffing traffic if he/she got access to the company's VPN.